Hello everybody and welcome back in this lecture we're going to have a quick look around at the unreal
interface.
If you've used unreal before this to be a great refresher if you're new to the scene.
Well let's get in straightaway and talk about the various windows we can see in front of us.
The biggest one right in front of us were the in-game terminal that we've created for you and the two
cows on the screen.
Well this is our main viewport This is the level that we'll be working in and we'll learn how to control
that in a bit and how to look around on the left hand side.
We've got a modes window this is great.
It's a load of actors 34 objects that we can drag on over into our scene which is really useful for
even setting up place holder assets or tweaking things like the lights etc. As you can see at the very
top we have a toolbar that's got some of the main functionality that we need.
And I will just point two buttons that I would like you to use often save current and compile.
Now I'd say that now and I'll say it again because there's no in the times where you save your code
when we go and start writing some code.
And because you've saved it in your head you may think oh we can hop on over into unreal click play
and it will work.
No remembers click that compile button over on the top right hand side we've got the world outline.
As the name suggests this is an outline of our entire world it's a hierarchy of everything in our level.
And then we've got this details area underneath if we were to go ahead and for instance click on one
of the items one of the objects in our world we get a more detailed breakdown of how the item or objects
is constructed at the very bottom here we've got the content browser.
And as that name suggests that's how you browse different content whether that be assets whether it
be scripts that have been written.
And once again this will be an area we look at him much more detail later on.
Now one of the great things about unreal is the interface is very very customizable.
I've got it set up as the default setting.
And if you ever make a mistake and you're struggling to get your windows back how they look right now
you can always go to the window menu and down at the bottom.
We have the option to reset the layout which is really great because what I'm about to get you to do
is move things around.
We've always got a get out of jail free card there by resetting the layout.
So what I mean by it's customizable.
Well it does depend on your particular setup.
So I'm trying to teach you guys here about on rails I'm going to have a certain way of setting up my
view.
However if you're working with multiple monitors you may want to move some of these windows to another
place.
How do we do that.
Well for instance this modes window at the top here I can click and drag and perhaps stack it next to
the world outline or I could put it underneath or stack it with the details that we go underneath and
it's just a matter of clicking it's moving it around.
You can see now I grab the handle in between the main view ports and the content browser.
And I've given myself a lot more screen space now to work with at the expense of making the modes tab
harder to work with.
You can also have any of these windows floating which can also be incredibly useful if that's the type
of workflow you like.
Now say you had done that and you click the cross to get rid of it and you're gone.
Oh no.
How do I get that back.
Well over time you'll learn what each of these areas are called.
And under the window menu we've got the option of bringing back in the modes window.
We go ahead and do that.
We've got it back here.
Then we can drag it into certain places.
You can see that we've got various options of how to snap things in place.
And a reminder once again if you want to go back to their default layouts you can go to window reset
layouts.
Now when you do this is going to warn you that it's going to require the unreal editor to restarts.
So you can go ahead and click on.
Okay.
It will say it would prompt you to save it if it needs if any changes have happened and then it will
just load the unreal project back up.
Now I've had enough of this reflection captures needs rebuilt so I'm going to go ahead and just click
on the build button there and allow that to run through.
Now in this particular case it has give us a warning we won't deal with that warning just at the moment.
We will shut that down.
But we've gotten rid of the error at the top there and I will save my level by taking safe current and
now it's time for you to practice with in the edit to now with our challenge.
So the challenge is quite forward I'd like you to get comfortable with real so Doc and undocked some
windows practice reorganizing the layouts and if you do have dual screen why don't you practice having
some of your items on another screen.
That would be a great way of testing how you might set it up in the future.
Now there are gonna be times when you want certain layouts and being able to adjust them to your needs
is incredibly important.
Some people just like sticking with the default and they will be doing that throughout the course in
the majority of cases maybe resizing windows.
But in general I keep the major components on the screen and do remember you can reset the layouts under
the window reset layouts option now I am happy with my current layouts as I am sticking with the default
one but what I'd like to do is pulls a video play with the layout and also go over to the forum and
let us know your particular setup.
Have you got one two or even three monitors.
Can you think of different ways that you might want unreal to be set up.
Share your discoveries over on the forum and I'll see you all in the next lecture.